Add to key concepts tab concept/Quantum Embedding (#216)
XanaduAI/pennylane: doc/concepts/embeddings.rst

.. _embeddings:

> Quantum Embedding

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Quantum embeddings
```

> ==================

Reviewer: ```suggestion
===================
```

> Quantum Embedding is the process of representing classical data as quantum states in a Hilbert space, i.e., *a quantum feature map*. This process is a crucial part of designing quantum algorithms and hence their complexity. For details, see [#]_ and [#]_. PennyLane provides built-in embedding templates that can do the embedding for the user; see :ref: `<pennylane.templates.embeddings>`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A *Quantum Embedding* is the process of representing classical data as quantum states in a Hilbert space, also known as a *quantum feature map*. This process is a crucial part of designing quantum algorithms. For details, see [#]_ and [#]_. PennyLane provides built-in embedding templates that can do the embedding for the user; see :ref: `<pennylane.templates.embeddings>`. 
```

> Lets consider classical input data consisting of M examples, N dimensional each: :math:`\mathcal{D}=\{x^{1}, \ldots, x^{M}\}`. To embed this onto an n-bit quantum system (n qubits *or* n qumodes for discrete and continuous variable quantum computing, respectively), we can use various embedding techniques some of whcih are explained breifly below. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's consider classical input data consisting of :math:`M` examples, with :math:`N` dimensions each: :math:`\mathcal{D}=\{x^{1}, \ldots, x^{M}\}`. To embed this data into quantum system (n qubits *or* n qumodes for discrete and continuous variable quantum computing, respectively), we can use various embedding techniques, some of which are explained briefly below. 
```

Reviewer: Would be useful to have a higher-level description of embeddings before jumping to specific ones. i.e., an embedding takes a classical datapoint x and translates this into a set of gate parameters in a quantum circuit. This ends up creating a state |\psi_x> on the quantum system.

Basis Embedding
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> For basis embedding, classical data has to be in the form of binary strings; each data point is an N-bit binary string :math:`x^{m}=(b_1,\ldots,b_N)` with :math:`b_i \in \{0,1\}` for :math:`i=1,\ldots,N`. Assuming all features are repesented with unit binary precision (one bit), each input example :math:`x^{m}` can be directly mapped to :math:`\mid x^{m}\rangle` quantum state. **This means that the number of quantum subsystems, n, must be at least equal to N; N features are represented by N qubits.** The input data can be reprented in the computational basis as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the basis embedding, classical data has to be in the form of binary strings; each data point is an N-bit binary string :math:`x^{m}=(b_1,\ldots,b_N)` with :math:`b_i \in \{0,1\}` for :math:`i=1,\ldots,N`. Assuming all features are represented with unit binary precision (one bit), each input example :math:`x^{m}` can be directly mapped to a quantum state :math:`\mid x^{m}\rangle`. **This means that the number of quantum subsystems, n, must be at least equal to N; N features are represented by N qubits.** The input data can be represented in the computational basis as:
```

> .. math:: \mid \mathcal{D} \rangle = \frac{1}{\sqrt{M}} \sum_{m=1}^{M} \mid x^{m} \rangle

Reviewer: Equations should have punctuation whenever possible
```suggestion
.. math:: \mid \mathcal{D} \rangle = \frac{1}{\sqrt{M}} \sum_{m=1}^{M} \mid x^{m} \rangle.
```

> For example, lets say :math:`x^{1}=01` and :math:`x^{2}=11`. So, example1 has feature1 in the off state and feature2 in the on state, while example2 has both feature1 and feature2 in the on state. The corresponding basis encoding uses 2 qubits to represent :math:`\mid x^{1} \rangle=\mid 01 \rangle` and :math:`\mid x^{2} \rangle=\mid 11 \rangle`: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, let's say :math:`x^{1}=01` and :math:`x^{2}=11`. So, example1 has feature1 in the off state and feature2 in the on state, while example2 has both feature1 and feature2 in the on state. The corresponding basis encoding uses 2 qubits to represent :math:`\mid x^{1} \rangle=\mid 01 \rangle` and :math:`\mid x^{2} \rangle=\mid 11 \rangle`: 
```

Reviewer: unclear what "example1/example2", "feature1/feature2" and "on/off state" mean

Author: yeah, i agree. I will take this out.

> .. math:: \mid \mathcal{D} \rangle = (0) \mid 00 \rangle+\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}\mid 01 \rangle+(0) \mid 10 \rangle+ \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} \mid 11 \rangle

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. math:: \mid \mathcal{D} \rangle = (0) \mid 00 \rangle+\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}\mid 01 \rangle+(0) \mid 10 \rangle+ \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} \mid 11 \rangle.
```

> 

Reviewer: To avoid confusion, and to not preclude how an algorithm might want to use basis embedding, I would distinguish the notion of embedding datapoints into basis states from the notion of embedding a full dataset D in superposition.

Start with the first notion of how to embed individual binary datapoints. Then move on to the idea that full datasets can be put in superposition after that.

Author: noted. on it!

> .. note:: There will be total of :math:`2^N` amplitudes. Given :math:`M \ll 2^N`, amplitude vectors will be sparse [1]_. 

Reviewer: Let's make things more clear so that we don't needlessly confuse anything with amplitude embeddings.
```suggestion
.. note:: For :math:`N` bits, there are :math:`2^N` possible basis states. Given :math:`M \ll 2^N`, the basis embedding of :math:`\mathcal{D}` will be sparse [1]_. 
```

Amplitude Embedding
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
This is a popular embedding technique where data is encoded into the amplitudes of a quantum state. This can be easily understood if we concatenate all the input examples :math:`x^m` together into one vector, i.e., 

> .. math:: \alpha = N \{ x^1_1, \ldots, x^1_N, x^2_1, \ldots, x^2_N, \ldots, x^M_1, \ldots, x^M_N \}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. math:: \alpha = N \{ x^1_1, \ldots, x^1_N, x^2_1, \ldots, x^2_N, \ldots, x^M_1, \ldots, x^M_N \},
```

> where :math:`N` is the normalization constant; this vector has to be normalized; :math:`\mid\alpha\mid^2`. The input data can now be reprented in the computational basis as:

Reviewer: something wrong/missing with this sentence

Author: yep! saw the mistake.

> where :math:`N` is the normalization constant; this vector has to be normalized; :math:`\mid\alpha\mid^2`. The input data can now be reprented in the computational basis as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
where :math:`N` is the normalization constant; this vector has to be normalized; :math:`\mid\alpha\mid^2`. The input data can now be represented in the computational basis as
```

> .. math:: \mid \mathcal{D} \rangle = \sum_{i=1}^{2^n} \alpha_i \mid i \rangle

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. math:: \mid \mathcal{D} \rangle = \sum_{i=1}^{2^n} \alpha_i \mid i \rangle,
```

> where :math:`\alpha_i` are the elements of amplitude vector :math:`\alpha` and :math:`\mid i \rangle` are the computational basis vectors corresponding to the number of qubits that are used. The number of amplitudes to be encoded are :math:`N \times M`. As the number of quantum subsystems, n, provide :math:`2^n` amplitudes, amplitude embedding requires :math:`n \sim \log_2({NM})` quantum subsystems.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
where :math:`\alpha_i` are the elements of amplitude vector :math:`\alpha` and :math:`\mid i \rangle` are the computational basis vectors corresponding to the number of qubits that are used. The number of amplitudes to be encoded is :math:`N \times M`. As the number of quantum subsystems, n, provide :math:`2^n` amplitudes, amplitude embedding requires :math:`n \sim \log_2({NM})` quantum subsystems.  
```

Reviewer: Do we want n\geq log2(NM) here instead?

Author: yeah i think that would be better.

> .. note:: If the total number of amplitudes to embed :math:`N \times M` are less than :math:`2^n`, *non-informative* constants can be *padded* to :math:`\alpha` [1]_. For example, if we have three example with two features each, we have six amplitudes to embed. However, as we have to use at least three qubits, we have to concatenate two constants at the end of :math:`\alpha`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. note:: If the total number of amplitudes to embed, i.e., :math:`N \times M`, is less than :math:`2^n`, *non-informative* constants can be *padded* to :math:`\alpha` [1]_. For example, if we have three example with two features each, we have six amplitudes to embed. However, as we have to use at least three qubits, we have to concatenate two constants at the end of :math:`\alpha`. 
```

.. rubric:: References

> .. [#] Supervised Learning with Quantum Computers by Maria Schuld, Francesco Petruccione. Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2018 

Reviewer: Add these to the repo references and link to them directly, rather than as endnotes

> .. [#]  Schuld & Killoran 2019 :cite:`schuld2018quantum`

Reviewer: same

> .. _embeddings:

Reviewer 2: The section reads very nice! 

There is one thing that might confuse readers (but which you might not know), the embedding methods take a single feature vector, not an entire data set. In QML, the data embedding is often useful, but for variational circuits the standard situation embedds one input at a time (like in neural nets). 

I suggest just pointing this out clearly, for example by saying "this is how 1 vector gets encoded like PL does it", and then "in principle, this can be used to encode an entire dataset, how NOT done by PL" :)

Author: In all other sections in concepts, only the theoretical/conceptual descriptions are given. They do not talk about how it was exactly implemented in PennyLane and give no links to the corresponding implemented functions. 

I can mention it in the tutorials/advanced usage section. 

What do you think?

Reviewer 3: > In all other sections in concepts, only the theoretical/conceptual descriptions are given. They do not talk about how it was exactly implemented in PennyLane and give no links to the corresponding implemented functions.

This is true, and something we should perhaps keep consistent. Maybe, instead of elaborating on the code/PennyLane specifics, we should start adding `.. see-also::`'s to the relevant tutorials?

Reviewer 2: Good idea

Author: I will change it for all concept tutorials.

> Quantum Embeddings

Reviewer 2: To be consistent with other headers:
```suggestion
Quantum embeddings
```

Author: good find! :)

===================

> A *Quantum Embedding* is the process of representing classical data as quantum states in a Hilbert space, i.e., *a quantum feature map*. An embedding takes a classical datapoint :math:`x` and translates it into a set of gate parameters in a quantum circuit. This ends up creating a state :math:`\mid \psi_x \rangle` on the quantum system. This process is a crucial part of designing quantum algorithms and hence their complexity. For more details, see :cite:`Mariabook2018` and :cite:`schuld2018quantum`. PennyLane provides built-in embedding templates that can do the embedding for the user; see :ref: `<pennylane.templates.embeddings>`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A *Quantum Embedding* represents classical data as quantum states in a Hilbert space, i.e., *a quantum feature map*. An embedding takes a classical datapoint :math:`x` and translates it into a set of gate parameters in a quantum circuit. This ends up creating a quantum state :math:`\mid \psi_x \rangle`. This process is a crucial part of designing quantum algorithms and affects their computational power. For more details, see :cite:`Mariabook2018` and :cite:`schuld2018quantum`. PennyLane provides built-in embedding templates that can do the embedding for the user; see :ref: `<pennylane.templates.embeddings>`. 
```

Reviewer 2: Unresolving this because there is a second problem: the :ref: is not rendered correctly in browser.

Author: yep on it :)

Let's consider classical input data consisting of :math:`M` examples, with :math:`N` dimensions each: :math:`\mathcal{D}=\{x^{1}, \ldots, x^{M}\}`. To embed this data into a quantum system (n qubits *or* n qumodes for discrete and continuous variable quantum computing, respectively), we can use various embedding techniques, some of which are explained briefly below. 

Basis Embedding
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> For the basis embedding, classical data has to be in the form of binary strings. The embedded quantum state is the bit-wise translation of a binary string to the corresponding states of quantum subsystems. For example, :math:`x=1001` is represented by the 4-qubit quantum state :math:`\mid 1001 \rangle`. Hence, one bit of classical information is represented by one quantum subsystem.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the basis embedding, classical data has to be in the form of binary strings. The embedded quantum state is the bit-wise translation of a binary string to the corresponding states of the quantum subsystems. For example, :math:`x=1001` is represented by the 4-qubit quantum state :math:`\mid 1001 \rangle`. Hence, one bit of classical information is represented by one quantum subsystem.
```

> Let's consider the classical dataset :math:`\mathcal{D}` mentioned above. For basis embedding, each example has to be a N-bit binary string :math:`x^{m}=(b_1,\ldots,b_N)` with :math:`b_i \in \{0,1\}` for :math:`i=1,\ldots,N`. Assuming all features are repesented with unit binary precision (one bit), each input example :math:`x^{m}` can be directly mapped to :math:`\mid x^{m}\rangle` quantum state. **This means that the number of quantum subsystems, n, must be at least equal to N; N features are represented by N qubits.** The input data can be represented in the computational basis as

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's consider the classical dataset :math:`\mathcal{D}` mentioned above. For basis embedding, each example has to be a N-bit binary string :math:`x^{m}=(b_1,\ldots,b_N)` with :math:`b_i \in \{0,1\}` for :math:`i=1,\ldots,N`. Assuming all features are represented with unit binary precision (one bit), each input example :math:`x^{m}` can be directly mapped to the quantum state :math:`\mid x^{m}\rangle`. **This means that the number of quantum subsystems, :math:`n`, must be at least equal to :math:`N`; :math:`N` features are represented by :math:`N` qubits.** The input data can be represented in the computational basis as
```

.. math:: \mid \mathcal{D} \rangle = \frac{1}{\sqrt{M}} \sum_{m=1}^{M} \mid x^{m} \rangle.

For example, let's say we have a classical data set containing two examples :math:`x^{1}=01` and :math:`x^{2}=11`. The corresponding basis encoding uses two qubits to represent :math:`\mid x^{1} \rangle=\mid 01 \rangle` and :math:`\mid x^{2} \rangle=\mid 11 \rangle`: 

.. math:: \mid \mathcal{D} \rangle = (0) \mid 00 \rangle+\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}\mid 01 \rangle+(0) \mid 10 \rangle+ \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} \mid 11 \rangle

.. note:: For :math:`N` bits, there are :math:`2^N` possible basis states. Given :math:`M \ll 2^N`, the basis embedding of :math:`\mathcal{D}` will be sparse :cite:`Mariabook2018`. 

Amplitude Embedding
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> This is a popular embedding technique where data is encoded into the amplitudes of a quantum state. This can be easily understood if we concatenate all the input examples :math:`x^m` together into one vector, i.e., 

Reviewer 2: I would not judge that it is "popular", things change so quickly. :)

Author: yeah. I will remove it .

.. math:: \alpha = C_n \{ x^1_1, \ldots, x^1_N, x^2_1, \ldots, x^2_N, \ldots, x^M_1, \ldots, x^M_N \},
 
where :math:`C_n` is the normalization constant; this vector has to be normalized :math:`\mid\alpha\mid^2=1`. The input data can now be represented in the computational basis as

.. math:: \mid \mathcal{D} \rangle = \sum_{i=1}^{2^n} \alpha_i \mid i \rangle,

> where :math:`\alpha_i` are the elements of amplitude vector :math:`\alpha` and :math:`\mid i \rangle` are the computational basis vectors corresponding to the number of qubits that are used. The number of amplitudes to be encoded are :math:`N \times M`. As the number of quantum subsystems, n, provide :math:`2^n` amplitudes, amplitude embedding requires :math:`n \geq \log_2({NM})` quantum subsystems.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
where :math:`\alpha_i` are the elements of amplitude vector :math:`\alpha` and :math:`\mid i \rangle` are the computational basis vectors corresponding to the number of qubits that are used. The number of amplitudes to be encoded are :math:`N \times M`. As the number of quantum subsystems, n, provide :math:`2^n` amplitudes, *amplitude embedding requires :math:`n \geq \log_2({NM})` quantum subsystems*.  
```

.. role:: html(raw)
   :format: html

.. _embeddings:

Quantum embeddings
===================

> 

Reviewer 3: I suggest moving the last sentence of the following paragraph to the top, so it is more visible. I.e.,

```suggestion

.. seealso:: PennyLane provides built-in embedding templates; see :mod:`pennylane.templates.embeddings` for more details.

```

Author: I put it at the end of the page so it does not distract away from the concept section before it has to :) check the new commit.  

I also added a `see also` section in concepts/quantum nodes at the end of its corresponding page.

Reviewer 3: :+1:

> A *Quantum Embedding* represents classical data as quantum states in a Hilbert space, i.e., *a quantum feature map*. An embedding takes a classical datapoint :math:`x` and translates it into a set of gate parameters in a quantum circuit. This ends up creating a quantum state :math:`\mid \psi_x \rangle`. This process is a crucial part of designing quantum algorithms and affects their computational power. For more details, see :cite:`Mariabook2018` and :cite:`schuld2018quantum`. PennyLane provides built-in embedding templates that can do the embedding for the user; see :mod:`pennylane.templates.embeddings`. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A *Quantum Embedding* represents classical data as quantum states in a Hilbert space, i.e., *a quantum feature map*. An embedding takes a classical datapoint :math:`x` and translates it into a set of gate parameters in a quantum circuit, creating a quantum state :math:`\mid \psi_x \rangle`. This process is a crucial part of designing quantum algorithms and affects their computational power — for more details, see :cite:`Mariabook2018` and :cite:`schuld2018quantum`.
```

Let's consider classical input data consisting of :math:`M` examples, with :math:`N` features each: 

> .. math:: \mathcal{D}=\{x^{1}, \ldots, x^{M}\}

Reviewer 3: In this section, it might be better to use bracketed indices (x^{(M)}) or subscripts (x_m) to avoid it looking like exponentiation.

Let's consider the classical dataset :math:`\mathcal{D}` mentioned above. For basis embedding, each example has to be a N-bit binary string; :math:`x^{m}=(b_1,\ldots,b_N)` with :math:`b_i \in \{0,1\}` for :math:`i=1,\ldots,N`. Assuming all features are repesented with unit binary precision (one bit), each input example :math:`x^{m}` can be directly mapped to the quantum state :math:`\mid x^{m}\rangle`. **This means that the number of quantum subsystems,** :math:`\bm{n}` **, must be at least equal to** :math:`\bm{N}`. The input data can be represented in the computational basis as

.. math:: \mid \mathcal{D} \rangle = \frac{1}{\sqrt{M}} \sum_{m=1}^{M} \mid x^{m} \rangle.

For example, let's say we have a classical data set containing two examples :math:`x^{1}=01` and :math:`x^{2}=11`. The corresponding basis encoding uses two qubits to represent :math:`\mid x^{1} \rangle=\mid 01 \rangle` and :math:`\mid x^{2} \rangle=\mid 11 \rangle`: 

> .. math:: \mid \mathcal{D} \rangle = (0) \mid 00 \rangle+\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}\mid 01 \rangle+(0) \mid 10 \rangle+ \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} \mid 11 \rangle

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. math:: \mid \mathcal{D} \rangle = (0) \mid 00 \rangle+\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}\mid 01 \rangle+(0) \mid 10 \rangle+ \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} \mid 11 \rangle.
```

.. _embeddings:

Quantum embeddings
===================

A *Quantum Embedding* represents classical data as quantum states in a Hilbert space, i.e., *a quantum feature map*. An embedding takes a classical datapoint :math:`x` and translates it into a set of gate parameters in a quantum circuit. This ends up creating a quantum state :math:`\mid \psi_x \rangle`. This process is a crucial part of designing quantum algorithms and affects their computational power. For more details, see :cite:`Mariabook2018` and :cite:`schuld2018quantum`. PennyLane provides built-in embedding templates that can do the embedding for the user; see :mod:`pennylane.templates.embeddings`. 

Let's consider classical input data consisting of :math:`M` examples, with :math:`N` features each: 

.. math:: \mathcal{D}=\{x^{1}, \ldots, x^{M}\}

where :math:`x^{i}` is a :math:`N` dimensional vector for :math:`i=1,\ldots,M`. To embed this data into :math:`n` quantum subsystems (:math:`n` qubits *or* :math:`n` qumodes for discrete and continuous variable quantum computing, respectively), we can use various embedding techniques, some of which are explained briefly below. 

Basis Embedding
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> <<<<<<< HEAD

Reviewer 3: Hey @AroosaIjaz, looks like a merge conflict accidentally got committed!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Author: ah my apologies!!

.. role:: html(raw)
   :format: html

.. _embeddings:

Quantum embeddings
===================

> A *Quantum Embedding* represents classical data as quantum states in a Hilbert space, i.e., *a quantum feature map*. An embedding takes a classical datapoint :math:`x` and translates it into a set of gate parameters in a quantum circuit, creating a quantum state :math:`\mid \psi_x \rangle`. This process is a crucial part of designing quantum algorithms and affects their computational power - for more details, see :cite:`Mariabook2018` and :cite:`schuld2018quantum`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A *Quantum Embedding* represents classical data as quantum states in a Hilbert space via a *quantum feature map*. An embedding takes a classical datapoint :math:`x` and translates it into a set of gate parameters in a quantum circuit, creating a quantum state :math:`\mid \psi_x \rangle`. This process is a crucial part of designing quantum algorithms and affects their computational power - for more details, see :cite:`Mariabook2018` and :cite:`schuld2018quantum`. 
```

> Let's consider classical input data consisting of :math:`M` examples, with :math:`N` features each: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's consider classical input data consisting of :math:`M` examples, with :math:`N` features each,
```

> .. math:: \mathcal{D}=\{x^{(1)}, \ldots, x^{(M)}\}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. math:: \mathcal{D}=\{x^{(1)}, \ldots, x^{(M)}\},
```

> where :math:`x^{(i)}` is a :math:`N` dimensional vector for :math:`i=1,\ldots,M`. To embed this data into :math:`n` quantum subsystems (:math:`n` qubits *or* :math:`n` qumodes for discrete and continuous variable quantum computing, respectively), we can use various embedding techniques, some of which are explained briefly below. 

Reviewer 2: Using m below...

```suggestion
where :math:`x^{(m)}` is a :math:`N`-dimensional vector for :math:`m=1,\ldots,M`. To embed this data into :math:`n` quantum subsystems (:math:`n` qubits *or* :math:`n` qumodes for discrete and continuous variable quantum computing, respectively), we can use various embedding techniques, some of which are explained briefly below. 
```

Basis Embedding
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> For the basis embedding, classical data has to be in the form of binary strings. The embedded quantum state is the bit-wise translation of a binary string to the corresponding states of the quantum subsystems. For example, :math:`x=1001` is represented by the 4-qubit quantum state :math:`\mid 1001 \rangle`. Hence, one bit of classical information is represented by one quantum subsystem.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Basis embedding associates each input with a computational basis state of a qubit system. Therefore, classical data has to be in the form of binary strings. The embedded quantum state is the bit-wise translation of a binary string to the corresponding states of the quantum subsystems. For example, :math:`x=1001` is represented by the 4-qubit quantum state :math:`\mid 1001 \rangle`. Hence, one bit of classical information is represented by one quantum subsystem.
```

> Let's consider the classical dataset :math:`\mathcal{D}` mentioned above. For basis embedding, each example has to be a N-bit binary string; :math:`x^{(m)}=(b_1,\ldots,b_N)` with :math:`b_i \in \{0,1\}` for :math:`i=1,\ldots,N`. Assuming all features are repesented with unit binary precision (one bit), each input example :math:`x^{(m)}` can be directly mapped to the quantum state :math:`\mid x^{(m)}\rangle`. **This means that the number of quantum subsystems,** :math:`\bm{n}` **, must be at least equal to** :math:`\bm{N}`. The input data can be represented in the computational basis as

Reviewer 2: Still, would try to make clear that the embedding is only the rule 01 <-> |01>, which is different from entire dataset.

```suggestion
Let's consider the classical dataset :math:`\mathcal{D}` mentioned above. For basis embedding, each example has to be a N-bit binary string; :math:`x^{(m)}=(b_1,\ldots,b_N)` with :math:`b_i \in \{0,1\}` for :math:`i=1,\ldots,N`. Assuming all features are repesented with unit binary precision (one bit), each input example :math:`x^{(m)}` can be directly mapped to the quantum state :math:`\mid x^{(m)}\rangle`. **This means that the number of quantum subsystems,** :math:`\bm{n}` **, must be at least equal to** :math:`\bm{N}`. An entire dataset can be represented in superpositions of computational basis states as
```

.. math:: \mid \mathcal{D} \rangle = \frac{1}{\sqrt{M}} \sum_{m=1}^{M} \mid x^{(m)} \rangle.

For example, let's say we have a classical data set containing two examples :math:`x^{(1)}=01` and :math:`x^{(2)}=11`. The corresponding basis encoding uses two qubits to represent :math:`\mid x^{(1)} \rangle=\mid 01 \rangle` and :math:`\mid x^{(2)} \rangle=\mid 11 \rangle` 

> .. math:: \mid \mathcal{D} \rangle = (0) \mid 00 \rangle+\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}\mid 01 \rangle+(0) \mid 10 \rangle+ \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} \mid 11 \rangle.

Reviewer 2: The (0) confused me quite a bit. Maybe better:
```suggestion
.. math:: \mid \mathcal{D} \rangle = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}\mid 01 \rangle +  \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} \mid 11 \rangle.
```

.. note:: For :math:`N` bits, there are :math:`2^N` possible basis states. Given :math:`M \ll 2^N`, the basis embedding of :math:`\mathcal{D}` will be sparse :cite:`Mariabook2018`. 

Amplitude Embedding
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In amplitude embedding technique, data is encoded into the amplitudes of a quantum state. This can be easily understood if we concatenate all the input examples :math:`x^{(m)}` together into one vector, i.e., 

.. math:: \alpha = C_n \{ x^{(1)}_1, \ldots, x^{(1)}_N, x^{(2)}_1, \ldots, x^{(2)}_N, \ldots, x^{(M)}_1, \ldots, x^{(M)}_N \},
 
where :math:`C_n` is the normalization constant; this vector must be normalized :math:`\mid\alpha\mid^2=1`. The input data can now be represented in the computational basis as

.. math:: \mid \mathcal{D} \rangle = \sum_{i=1}^{2^n} \alpha_i \mid i \rangle,

> where :math:`\alpha_i` are the elements of amplitude vector :math:`\alpha` and :math:`\mid i \rangle` are the computational basis vectors corresponding to the number of quantum subsystems that are used. The number of amplitudes to be encoded are :math:`N \times M`. As the number of quantum subsystems, :math:`n`, provide :math:`2^n` amplitudes, **amplitude embedding requires** :math:`\bm{n \geq \log_2({NM})}`  **quantum subsystems.**  

Reviewer 2: Not sure about "corresponding to the number of quantum subsystems"?Could we reformulate?

```suggestion
where :math:`\alpha_i` are the elements of amplitude vector :math:`\alpha` and :math:`\mid i \rangle` are the computational basis states corresponding to the number of quantum subsystems that are used. The number of amplitudes to be encoded are :math:`N \times M`. As the number of quantum subsystems, :math:`n`, provide :math:`2^n` amplitudes, **amplitude embedding requires** :math:`\bm{n \geq \log_2({NM})}`  **quantum subsystems.**  
```

Author: I don't know what other term to use here that can represent both qubits and qumodes. 

I tries to explain this term at the top of the page:

To embed this data into :math:`n` quantum subsystems (:math:`n` qubits *or* :math:`n` qumodes for discrete and continuous variable quantum computing, respectively), we can use various embedding techniques, some of which are explained briefly below.

any ideas?

Reviewer: @mariaschuld can correct if I'm wrong, but I don't think she was referring to discrete vs continuous. To my eye, it just seems that it is not clear what the phrase "corresponding to the number of quantum subsystems" actually means (even if we were fixed to considering just discrete model).

Author: hm. I wanted to say that the computational basis state depend on n...which is obvious.. so perhaps its better to just remove this phrase ?

.. math:: \mid \mathcal{D} \rangle = \frac{1}{\sqrt{M}} \sum_{m=1}^{M} \mid x^{(m)} \rangle.

For example, let's say we have a classical data set containing two examples :math:`x^{(1)}=01` and :math:`x^{(2)}=11`. The corresponding basis encoding uses two qubits to represent :math:`\mid x^{(1)} \rangle=\mid 01 \rangle` and :math:`\mid x^{(2)} \rangle=\mid 11 \rangle` 

.. math:: \mid \mathcal{D} \rangle = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}\mid 01 \rangle + \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} \mid 11 \rangle.

.. note:: For :math:`N` bits, there are :math:`2^N` possible basis states. Given :math:`M \ll 2^N`, the basis embedding of :math:`\mathcal{D}` will be sparse :cite:`Mariabook2018`. 

Amplitude Embedding
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In amplitude embedding technique, data is encoded into the amplitudes of a quantum state. This can be easily understood if we concatenate all the input examples :math:`x^{(m)}` together into one vector, i.e., 

.. math:: \alpha = C_n \{ x^{(1)}_1, \ldots, x^{(1)}_N, x^{(2)}_1, \ldots, x^{(2)}_N, \ldots, x^{(M)}_1, \ldots, x^{(M)}_N \},
 

> where :math:`C_n` is the normalization constant; this vector must be normalized :math:`\mid\alpha\mid^2=1`. The input data can now be represented in the computational basis as

Reviewer: sometimes `\mid` seems to pad a bit too much extra space in built docs (like here)
```suggestion
where :math:`C_n` is the normalization constant; this vector must be normalized :math:`|\alpha|^2=1`. The input data can now be represented in the computational basis as
```

Reviewer: Can you go through compiled docs and fix up whereever you see that `\mid` is creating unnecessary space? It doesn't happen every time

Author: Sure. On it.

Author: Yes, it does not happen every time. Should I change replace all `\mid` by `|` for consistency?

Reviewer: yep, probably easiest to just convert all `\mid`s to vertical bars. More for reliability than anything (e.g., in case this page of the docs change later and the `\mid`s that are currently well-behaved introduce that extra spacing)

Author: agreed :)

> where :math:`C_n` is the normalization constant; this vector must be normalized :math:`\mid\alpha\mid^2=1`. The input data can now be represented in the computational basis as

Reviewer: what does `n` in `C_n` refer to? Below it refers to number of qubits. Is it same here?

Author: yeah, this can be confusing. It was a label for the constant. I changed it to `C_norm`.

> .. math:: \mid \mathcal{D} \rangle = \sum_{i=1}^{2^n} \alpha_i \mid i \rangle,

Reviewer: Is there not also a notion of amplitude embedding for single N-dimensional features/datapoints?

Author: yeah. You are right. I will add that.

> where :math:`\alpha_i` are the elements of amplitude vector :math:`\alpha` and :math:`\mid i \rangle` are the computational basis states corresponding to the number of quantum subsystems that are used. The number of amplitudes to be encoded are :math:`N \times M`. As the number of quantum subsystems, :math:`n`, provide :math:`2^n` amplitudes, **amplitude embedding requires** :math:`\bm{n \geq \log_2({NM})}`  **quantum subsystems.**  

Reviewer: This argument only seems to apply to qubits, so we might as well call them that directly
```suggestion
where :math:`\alpha_i` are the elements of amplitude vector :math:`\alpha` and :math:`\mid i \rangle` are the computational basis states corresponding to the number of quantum subsystems that are used. The number of amplitudes to be encoded are :math:`N \times M`. A system of :math:`n` qubits provides :math:`2^n` amplitudes, so **amplitude embedding requires** :math:`\bm{n \geq \log_2({NM})}`  **qubits.**  
```

> .. note:: If the total number of amplitudes to embed, i.e., :math:`N \times M`, is less less than :math:`2^n`, *non-informative* constants can be *padded* to :math:`\alpha `:cite:`Mariabook2018`. For example, if we have three example with two features each, we have six amplitudes to embed. However, as we have to use at least three qubits, we have to concatenate two constants at the end of :math:`\alpha`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. note:: If the total number of amplitudes to embed, i.e., :math:`N \times M`, is less less than :math:`2^n`, *non-informative* constants can be *padded* to :math:`\alpha `:cite:`Mariabook2018`. For example, if we have three examples with two features each, we have six amplitudes to embed. However, as we have to use at least three qubits, we have to concatenate two constants at the end of :math:`\alpha`. 
```

> .. important:: There are many other embedding techniques with similar embedding protocols. For example, *Squeezing embedding* and *Displacement embedding* are used with continuous variable quantum computing models, where classical information is encoded in the squeezing and displacement operator parameters. *Hamiltonian embedding* uses an implicit technique by encoding information in the evolution of a quantum system :cite:`Mariabook2018`.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. important:: There are many other embedding techniques with similar embedding protocols. For example, *Squeezing embedding* and *Displacement embedding* are used with continuous-variable quantum computing models, where classical information is encoded in the squeezing and displacement operator parameters. *Hamiltonian embedding* uses an implicit technique by encoding information in the evolution of a quantum system :cite:`Mariabook2018`.  
```

> .. seealso:: PennyLane provides built-in embedding templates; see :mod:`pennylane.templates.embeddings` for more details.

Reviewer: Nice!

.. math:: \mid \mathcal{D} \rangle = \frac{1}{\sqrt{M}} \sum_{m=1}^{M} |x^{(m)} \rangle.

For example, let's say we have a classical dataset containing two examples :math:`x^{(1)}=01` and :math:`x^{(2)}=11`. The corresponding basis encoding uses two qubits to represent :math:`\mid x^{(1)} \rangle=|01 \rangle` and :math:`\mid x^{(2)} \rangle=|11 \rangle` resulting in

.. math:: \mid \mathcal{D} \rangle = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}|01 \rangle + \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} |11 \rangle.

.. note:: For :math:`N` bits, there are :math:`2^N` possible basis states. Given :math:`M \ll 2^N`, the basis embedding of :math:`\mathcal{D}` will be sparse :cite:`schuld2018supervised`. 

Amplitude Embedding
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> In the amplitude embedding technique, data is encoded into the amplitudes of a quantum state. A classical **normalized** :math:`N`-dimensional datapoint :math:`x` is represented by the amplitudes of a :math:`n`-qubit quantum state :math:`\mid \psi_x \rangle` as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the amplitude-embedding technique, data is encoded into the amplitudes of a quantum state. A classical **normalized** :math:`N`-dimensional datapoint :math:`x` is represented by the amplitudes of a :math:`n`-qubit quantum state :math:`\mid \psi_x \rangle` as
```

Author: I am curious as to why we are changing the format now? Should I change this for basis embedding too? also in the headings ?

Reviewer: It's not a format change, it's just correcting the grammar. When a compound adjective appears before the known, you need to hyphenate it. If it appears on it's own (e.g., the section title) or after the noun, you don't hyphenate
https://www.grammar.com/compound-adjectives/

Author: oh wow. I did not even think about that! really cool! :)

.. math:: \mid \psi_x \rangle = \sum_{i=1}^{N} x_i |i \rangle,

> where :math:`N=2^n`, :math:`x_i` is the :math:`i`'th element of :math:`x` and :math:`\mid i \rangle` is the :math:`i`'th computational basis state. For example, let's say we want to encode :math:`x=1010` using amplitude embedding. The first step is to normalize it, i.e., :math:`x_{norm}=\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}(1010)`. The corresponding amplitude encoding uses two qubits to represent :math:`x_{norm}` as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
where :math:`N=2^n`, :math:`x_i` is the :math:`i`th element of :math:`x` and :math:`\mid i \rangle` is the :math:`i`th computational basis state. For example, let's say we want to encode :math:`x=1010` using amplitude embedding. The first step is to normalize it, i.e., :math:`x_{norm}=\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}(1010)`. The corresponding amplitude encoding uses two qubits to represent :math:`x_{norm}` as
```

Reviewer: I'm confused about using a binary string as an example for the amplitude embedding :thinking: 
@mariaschuld what are your thoughts

Author: I wanted to keep it consistent with basis embedding regarding how classical data may look like before embedding.

Author: `:math:`i`th element` does not compile properly into html; we need a space after the math expression which is more confusing to read. I have changed it to `:math:`i`-th element`.

Reviewer: yep, sounds good :+1:
